A Drop of Moonlight
A Guru Yoga for Lord Mila
by Jokyab Pema Trinlé Nyingpo

ü su gyalwé chizuk ché
In the centre is the embodiment of all victors—
dangpo mi la töpa ga
He was first known as Mila Töpa Ga,
bardu awo tuchen shyé
Then he was known as Awo Tuchen,
tamar dorjé gyaltsen drak
After that he was known as Dorjé Gyaltsen,
danta shyepa dorjé ni
And now he is known as Shepa Dorjé.

za tsö solwé kudok ngo
His skin is blue from a diet of nettles.
dé drö rang bar ré zen nab
Ablaze with blissful warmth, he wears only a cotton shawl.
kawa chepé ku lü kem
His body is gaunt from enduring austerities.
tingdzin yomé shyab sem kyil
He is seated in bodhisattva posture in unwavering samādhi.

dündu tseringmé pulwé
In front of him is an amṛta-filled ox horn
ba men racho dütsi kang
That was offered to him by Tseringma.
nyen gyü bé bum ngé su chuk
He has a scripture of the hearing lineage as his pillow.
nyerchö trenbu zur du tram
His paltry possessions are arranged around him.
chak nyi dram ten den nön dzé
Of his two hands, the right is against his cheek and the left presses down on his seat.
tsenpé shyal dzum ya la la
Adorned with the marks and signs, he is smiling gleefully,
dorjé gur lu lhang sé lhang
Singing a stream of vajra songs melodiously,
lhenkyé detong lam sé lam
Radiating co-emergent blissful emptiness.
tong tö dren rek nyong tsor kün
Thus he is vividly present as the sixfold liberation—
drolwa drukden chenpor sal
Through seeing, hearing, thinking about, touching, sensing, or experiencing.

shar du dakpo lharjé ni
In the east is Dakpo Lhajé, Gampopa.
gom shya chögö gelong ché
He wears a meditation hat, Dharma robes, and bhikṣu’s attire,
zakmé tingdzin gyatsor jam
And is immersed in the ocean of undefiled samādhi.

lho ru ré chung dor drak ni
In the south is Rechung Dorjé Drak.
ré shya ré zen repé ché
He wears a cotton hat, cotton shawl, and cotton robes,
nyam yang gur ma u ru ru
And sings sweet songs of his inner experience.

nub tu ngen dzong repa ni
In the west is Ngendzong Repa.
la gö tang sham tsünpé ché
He wears the monastic attire with the upper robe and monk’s skirt,
ösal gongpa lammewa
And shines with the wisdom realisation of luminosity.

jang du repa shyiwa ö
In the north is Repa Shiwa’ö.
gomtak am rak naljor ché
He wears the yogi’s attire of meditation belt and skirt,
temé nyamtok zangtal lé
And glows with boundless experience and realisation of simplicity.

jetsün ku yi choktsam su
In the intermediate directions surrounding Lord Mila are:
khyira repa ngönpé tsul
Kyira Repa in the guise of a hunter,
lukdzi repa dziwö tsul
Lukzi Repa in the guise of a herdsman,
sé ben repa bandhé tsul
Seben Repa in the guise of a monk,
pa dar bum ni nyamé tsul
And Padar Bum in the guise of a maiden,
jikten nangwa ma shyum mé
Their worldly appearances on the decline,
chö kyi nangwa to yé ré
Their Dharma appearances on the rise.

yé su singmo tré ta ma
To his right is his sister Peta.
yön du dzamo dzé sé ma
To his left, his betrothed Dzesé,
nyiké jetsün shyal la ta
Both gazing at Lord Mila’s face,
dren jé chu ri sha ra ra
His guiding influence rippling through them.

tengdu marpa lotsawa
Above him is Marpa Lotsāwa
kagyü lama jin tib sé
With a blessed host of the Kagyü gurus.

bardu jetsün ku lü la
In between, vividly manifest in Mila’s own body,
gyü dé lhatsok tra lammé
Are the deities of the classes of tantra.

oktu tsering ché nga la
Below him are the Five Tseringma Sisters
khandro chökyong ur chem mé
With a bustling gathering of ḍākinīs and Dharma protectors.

ngödrub natsok char tar beb
From them flows a cascade of manifold siddhis.
om ah hung benza maha guru hasa sarwa siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra mahāguru hasa sarva siddhi hūṃ

This was written by Pema Trinlé Nyingpo, also known as Karma Trinlé Gyatso, at Nyalung Ten Dorjé
Cave,1 Milarepa’s first practice place.

| Translated by Laura Dainty with the kind assistance of Tsangsar Tulku, 2021.

Source: pad+ma 'phrin las snying po, karma bde chen. "mi la'i bla ma'i rnal 'byor zla ba'i thig
le/." In gsung 'bum/_pad+ma 'phrin las snying po/. BDRC W1KG5787. 3 vols. khri'u tu'u/:
gzu dgon rig gzhung nyams gso khang /, [2010]. Vol. 1: 268–270

Version: 1.0-20211027
↑ This cave, also known as Tak Nya Lung Ten (stag gnya' lung bstan), is the site of Milarepa's
first retreat.