Guru Yoga of Milarepa Shepa Dorje for Daily Practice
by the Tenth Pawo Rinpoche, Tsuklak Mawé Wangchuk

rang gi chiwor pé dé teng
Majestic Shepa Dorje
jetsün shepa dorje ni
Is seated at the crown of my head upon cushions of lotus and moon.
ku dok ngo sang ré kar söl
He is pale green,1 dressed in robes of white cotton,
u ral gyen du chokpa yi
His long hair falling over his shoulders.
chek yé nyen gyi tekar ten
An imposing figure, he sits with splendour
yönpé nyam shyak tö shyal nam
Amidst a swirl of wisdom’s rainbow light;
yeshé ö nga trukpé long
His right hand is at his right ear,
zi jin rabtu barwar shyuk
And his left rests in his lap holding a skull-cup,
shyom mé dorjé gur yang drok
As he sings a stream of spiritual vajra songs.

tukjé dak la tsewé gong
Think lovingly of me and grant your blessings, so that:
ku nga yeshe nga tob chin gyi lop
I may actualize the five kāyas and five wisdoms,
neluk rang shyal jalwar chin gyi lop
And see my own true face, the natural state,
namtok gom du charwar chin gyi lop
Thoughts may become meditation,
kyen ngen lam du longwar chin gyi lop
Negative circumstances may help my path,
lé ngen dik drip dakpar chin gyi lop
Negative action, sin, and obscuration may be purified,
tawa gölsa chöpar chin gyi lop
Deviations in the view may be overcome,
khorwa shyen lok kyewar chin gyi lop
I may become disenchanted with saṃsāra,
ja lü khachö drubpar chin gyi lop
And I may achieve the rainbow body and accomplish Khechara.2

om ah guru hasa bendza hung
oṃ āḥ guru hāsa vajra hūṃ3

jetsün shepa dorje ku
Finally, like a water bubble dissolving back into water,
rang sem trödral nyimé dré
Lordly Shepa Dorje dissolves into me,
chu la chubur timpa tar
And I rest in equipoise,
mikmé ngang de nyampar shyak
My mind free of all elaboration and duality.

gewa di yi nyur du dak
Through this merit, may I swiftly
chakgya chenpo drup gyur né
Accomplish Mahāmudrā,
drowa chik kyang malüpa
And go on to establish all beings
dé yi sa la göpar shok
In that same state.

Conclude the practice with prayers of dedication and auspiciousness.

Written by the one called Pawo.4

| Translated by Sean Price, 2016
↑ sngo sang(s). According to Chime Rinpoche, the colour is a pale bluish green, i.e., more green
than blue.↑ Skt. Khecara. The pure land of Vajravārāhī.↑ Hāsa vajra is Sanskrit for Shepa
Dorje, Milarepa's name.↑ i.e., The Tenth Pawo Rinpoche, Tsuklak Mawé Wangchuk.