Guru Yoga of Jetsün Shepa Dorje
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Namo bhaṭṭarārāya!

The mere sound of your name is enoughTo dispel the sufferings of the lower realms.Lord Mila,
bowing down at your feet,I shall here set out a brief guru yoga.
Refuge & Bodhicitta
First, to take refuge and generate bodhicitta:
khanyam dro druk semchen nam
Sentient beings of the six classes throughout the whole of space
lama chok la kyab su chi
Take refuge in the supreme guru.
sipé tso lé drolwa yi
To find freedom from the ocean of saṃsāric existence,
mönjuk changchub chok semkyé
I set my mind that upon supreme awakening, in aspiration and in action.
Main Practice
Visualization
ah, rangnang dakpé shyingkham ché
Ah. My own perception is a vast realm of purity.
chötrin gyatsö tekpé ü
In its centre, supported by vast clouds of offerings,
pekar dawa gyepé teng
Upon a white lotus and full moon disc
naljor wangchuk mi la jé
Is the lord of yogis, precious Milarepa.
kar ngo dzé dzum changlo chang
He is pale blue, handsome and smiling, with long braided locks.
chak yé nyen gyi tekar tö
His right hand is held at the level of his ear;
yönpa sa nön pü teng kab
His left, in the earth-touching mudrā, covers his knee.
cherbu ang rak ré zen sol
He is naked but for a loincloth and cotton shawl,
shyab nyi chekyil tab kyi shyuk
And is seated with his two legs loosely crossed.
né sum dru sum ö tröpé
Light shines out from the three syllables at his three centres
yeshe chendrang yermé gyur
To invite the wisdom form, who dissolves into him indivisibly.
lama chok la dak kyab chi
I take refuge in the supreme guru.
dikpa mi gé sosor shak
I confess my misdeeds and harmful actions, one by one.
Continue with the daily confession practice. Should you wish to practise more elaborately, offer
the maṇḍala.
jé drenpa tsam gyi dungwa sel
Precious lord, merely to remember you banishes all ills.
sishyi güpa kyob dzepa
You who save from the strains of existence and quiescence,
shyepa dorjér solwa deb
Shepa Dorje, to you I pray:
taktu dak la jingyi lob
Always inspire me with your blessings,
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
And bestow supreme and ordinary attainments.
Mantra Recitation
om ah guru hasya benza sarwa siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ guru hāsya vajra sarva siddhi hūṃ1
Recite the mantra as many times as you can.
palden naljor wangchuk
Glorious guru, lord of yogins,
dren chok shyepa dorjé
Supreme object of recollection Shepa Dorje,
jetsün töpa gawar
Venerable Töpa Ga, ‘Joyous to Hear’,
tsechik solwa deb na
As I pray to you single-pointedly,
jinlab wangkur tsol chik
Inspire me with your blessings and grant empowerment.
lamé sang sum özer lé
From the light rays at the guru's three secrets,
om ah hung dang soha trö
The syllables oṃ, āḥ, hūṃ and svāhā emerge
rang gi né shyir timpa lé
And dissolve into my own four centres,
drib dak wang dang ngödrub tob
Purifying obscurations and conferring empowerment and siddhis.
ku shyi sabön gyü la shyak
The seeds of the four kāyas are implanted in my mindstream.
lama rang tim yermé ngang
The guru dissolves into me, inseparably.
machö rangbab chakgya ché
And I rest in that natural and unaltered state of Mahāmudrā.
dü sum dümé takpar kyong
Sustaining an experience of timelessness beyond past, present and future,
nangsi chakgya chenpor ta
I look into the Great Seal of appearance and existence.
Rest in equipoise.
When you rise from the session, dedicate the virtue and so on.
During the post-meditation, never fail to integrate the practice of the guru.

When Lakar Sogyal playfully asked me to write something of this kind, I, Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö,
wrote this in the monastery of Tsurphu Tölung in the residence known as Display that Delights
the Lord of the World in its Three Doors of Liberation temple. May this become a cause
for the blessings of the great reverend guru to infuse us all. Sarvadā maṅgalaṃ.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "rje btsun bzhad pa rdo rje'i bla ma'i rnal 'byor//" in gsung
'bum/_'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros/ (dbu med/). TBRC W21813. 8 vols. Gangtok: Dzongsar
Khyentse Labrang, 1981–1985. http://tbrc.org/link?RID=W21813 Vol. 1: 435–437

Version: 1.2-20211029
↑ The mantra incorporates the Sanskrit version of Milarepa's name Shepa Dorje, i.e., Hāsya Vajra.